# Retrospectives

## Jan 1st - May 22nd
Up until now I've finished reading the following books:
* [100% done on February 15th] "Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!": Adventures of a Curious Character by Richard Feynman
* [100% done on March 20th] Understanding Comics: The Invisible Art by Scott McCloud
* [100% done on May 20, 2016] Flatland: A romance of many dimensions by Edwin A. Abbott

While this might seem like a very modest amount of books to have read in almost half a year, it's a pretty big deal for me, given how few full books I normally read outside of anything assigned to me as homework. While I did read a lot before, it was mostly online articles and tutorials; this year I was looking to explore reading longer-form pieces.

Something else I've been trying to do with this reading list is to become better at *choosing* what books to read (which ones to add to the reading list). For this, I've been experimenting with asking for suggestions from friends and colleagues. Since I don't want them to give me the most "recommendable" or popular book they know (and might not even finished), instead I have been asking them for books they have actually read and enjoyed a lot. I've also been looking at online reviews for books by some people I admire and only choosing books that they rate 5/5 stars (or even "6/5 stars") and that they seem excited about.

I find it motivating to see my progress in a centralized list like this one, especially when I'm tempted to abandon a good book midway because of one boring chapter. The second advantage is that when I finish a book, I'm never left in an awkward hiatus without a new book to read: I just look at the Reading List and choose an option.

I haven't found the aformentioned motivating effect with textbooks, since there isn't a good way of tracking progress if I'm not reading the textbook sequentially, and even then, the intimidating length of the textbooks make the progress slow ("Oh, you're still at 15% done with that one?"). It's a similar situation with online courses. On the other hand, when it comes to articles and tutorials the motivating factor of the Reading List is lacking for a different reason. Keeping track of the ones I've read seems like too much of a hassle, given how short they are, so that keeping track of them feels like more of an interruption than a motivator. That being said, I do like having the textbooks, online courses, tutorials, videos, etc. in my Reading List as a sort of bookmark collection that I can reference when I don't remember the name or link of one of the resources.

I should mention that there's something blatantly missing from the reading list. For the past two months or so I've been obsessed with learning Phonetics. I've read countless Wikipedia pages, watched tons of videos of people explaining all sorts of foreign sounds, watched a few movies in foreign languages I don't speak with subtitles in that same language, downloaded several IPA pronunciation apps, looked at way too many anatomical diagrams of the mouth with varying tongue positions, and watched some disturbing videos filmed from the inside of a person's mouth as he pronounced every back consonant imaginable. I've also found myself unable to stop constantly practicing a wide range of consonant and vowel sounds, as well as unable to refrain myself from talking about linguistics with anyone that crosses my path in social events. The only books involved in this phonetics self-study were a Phonetics textbook and a French pronunciation manual, which I'll add soon to the reading list, but I haven't documented the bulk of the learning material I've used. I guess that when the intrinsic motivation is large enough, writing the progress down becomes more of a nuisance than a motivator. However, what if someone asks me in the future for resources to learn about phonetics? That's when it would be useful to have written down the resources I used; otherwise, my recommendation would be severely incomplete.
